2019-10-02-psec-2019.md: created (#145)
3mdeb/news-and-ideas: blog/content/post/2019-10-02-psec-2019.md

  - Security

---

PSEC 2019 enables hardware/firmware engineers, VMM/OS developers, architects,
integrators, verifiers and senior technical staff to collaborate on
hardware-assisted platform security and composable software supply chain
integrity, from edge to cloud. Piotr Król, 3mdeb founder and Embedded Systems
Consultant was one of the speakers with [the article](https://www.platformsecuritysummit.com/#krol)
"Less-Insecure Network Edge Virtualization with Low Size, Weight and Power" and
shared with us his thoughts and notes, which will be published here in the next  
weeks.

![Trespassers will be eaten](/img/PSEC_2019_1.jpg)

The event started 1 Oct in Redmond, WA, at Microsoft Studio B with 3
introductional videos which were meant to bring the participants into more
exalted mood. The most interesting of the videos touched the areas of necessity
of support for organizations like NASA that rise the level of knowledge in all
the mankind. It was also related to the power of stories, myths, that push our
species growth. Next all the presentations took place as planned. We'll gonna
shorten the most interesting ones. Reader can find all the abstracts on
the conference page.

> __"Guarding against physical attacks; Xbox" Tony Chen__

Reviewer: @lwcislo video to this presentation is already avaialbe.

This was essentially the problem with one of the most attacked devices in
history. When you are working on PC security you can assume, that your job is to
protect the PC owner and his stuff from outer threats. You can consider him
being a good guy. On the contrary to the Xbox the owner is a threat himself.
It is him, who will probably try to use software and hardware tools to
compromise it. Why should he? Because it may give him an advantage in online
games or enable piracy.

![Security architecture](/img/xbox-one.jpg)

Modern gaming platforms are priced below the manufacturing cost. Companies
want to rather earn their share with software - games designed for specific
platform. That's why they consider eventual piracy an extremely dangerous
threat. It may be a matter of company existence - the best example is SEGA.

There are two ways to make a device recognize tampered optical disk as a genuine
one. The first one is to make the disk absolutely identical - which can be
obtained but is not a part of the scope of this article. The second one is to
make a device recognize not-exactly-identical disk as the original one. This
is the place where an physical attack can be performed.

> The device is controlled by the attacker. Silicon die inside the CPU has 28 nm,

Reviewer: @lwcislo where did you get that information? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semiconductor_device_fabrication ?

Author: @pietrushnic https://cloud.3mdeb.com/index.php/s/dMsM4JK9Rc6BSRK

this size makes it not economically feasible to modify. This is the reason why
CPU should be the only trusted component. Any other hardware can't be trusted
because the owner can connect something simulating its behavior to proper bus.

> As a consequence we can't trust to any data from flash, SSD, HDD, ODD, DRAM.

Reviewer: @lwcislo ODD?

Author: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_disc_drive

Author: https://cloud.3mdeb.com/index.php/s/5Jg52ojkrcHW3A5

---

> title: 'Platform Security Summit 2019 notes. Part 1'

Reviewer 2: title should be changed

abstract: 'We are happy to announce that 3mdeb representation took part in
          Platform Security Summit 2019. In the next weeks we are going to
          briefly refer what took our attention and enclose the course of
          this conference.'
cover: /covers/PSEC_2019.png
author:
  - piotr.krol
  - lukasz.wcislo
layout: post

> published: false

Reviewer 2: set to `true`

> date: 2019-10-03

Reviewer 2: remember to set an actual date

archives: "2019"

tags:
  - PSEC 2019
  - Conference
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
  - Security

---

PSEC 2019 enables hardware/firmware engineers, VMM/OS developers, architects,
integrators, verifiers and senior technical staff to collaborate
on hardware-assisted platform security and composable software supply chain
integrity, from edge to cloud. Piotr Król, 3mdeb founder and Embedded Systems

> Consultant was one of the speakers with [the article](https://www.platformsecuritysummit.com/#krol) "Less-Insecure Network Edge

Reviewer 2: wrap to 80 chars

Virtualization with Low Size, Weight and Power" and shared with us his thoughts
and notes, which will be published here in the next weeks.

![Trespassers will be eaten](/img/PSEC_2019_1.jpg)

The event started 1 Oct in Redmond, WA, at Microsoft Studio B with 3
introductional videos which were meant to bring the participants into more
exalted mood. The most interesting of the videos touched the areas of necessity
of support for organizations like NASA that rise the level of knowledge in all

> the mankind. It also related to the power of stories, myths, that push our

Reviewer 2: It also relates to / It is also related to?

> specie growth. Next all the presentations took place as planned. We'll gonna

Reviewer 2: `Species` - it is both singular and plural. Also `specie` means money held in coins rather than notes

> shorten the most interesting. Reader can find all the abstracts on

Reviewer 2: Join 2 short sentences into one: `... and we will ..`

> shorten the most interesting. Reader can find all the abstracts on

Reviewer 2: maybe: `most interesting ones`

the conference page.

__"Guarding against physical attacks; Xbox" Tony Chen__

Imagine, that your task is to create a nuclear shelter. It should be safe
and secure but also easy accessible for anyone with proper key. And it should be
located on the hostile territory.

This was essentially the problem with one of the most attacked devices in
history. When you are working on PC security you can assume, that your job is to
protect the PC owner and his stuff from outer threats. You can consider him

> being a good guy. On the contrary on the Xbox the owner is a threat himself.

Reviewer 2: `on the contrary to the Xbox,`

obtained but is not a part of the scope of this article. The second one is to
make a device recognize not-exactly-identical disk as the original one. This
is the place where an physical attack can be performed.

The device is controlled by the attacker. Silicon die inside the CPU has 28 nm,
this size makes it not economically feasible to modify. This is the reason why
CPU should be the only trusted component. Any other hardware can't be trusted
because the owner can connect something simulating its behavior to proper bus.
As a consequence we can't trust to any data from flash, SSD, HDD, ODD, DRAM.
Moreover, have to assume, that every PIN was exposed and attacked. Attacker can
use whatever he wants with any tools to manipulate with connections between any
parts of hardware. If we don't want to become paranoid we should come back to
the economical feasibility. Yes, there are some invasive silicon attacks methods
that will successfully pass almost every security walls, but let's assume,
that our attacker won't spend thousands of dollars to buy tools used for
analysis and debugging by semiconductor manufacturers. Microsoft stated

> that threat modding game have to be more expensive then 10 games - about 600USD.

Reviewer 2: than

Reviewer 2: 600 USD or $600

So what have they actually done?

![Security architecture](/img/PSEC_2019_2.jpg)

The key was adding another security layer. Security processor - separated chip
that enforce fuse revocation as well as anti-rollback mechanism - that manages
secure boot process. It contains custom registers called PCR (just as in TPM)

> which are used to store hashes for every bootstage. OS is integrity checked at

Reviewer 2: OS integrity is checked

boot time. Global key can be accessed only at boot ROM stage and there is no way

> to access it further. The chain of trust is constructed in way that keys are

Reviewer 2: in a way

available only at stage they are needed, then they disappear and cannot be used
at different boot phases. Global key gives ability to encrypt first stage
bootloader. Global key is related with game decryption. First game is decrypted
by CPU and then stored encrypted with different key in DRAM.

> After boot Xbox split OS into separate partitions - read only and read-write.

Reviewer 2: read-only

While read-write partitions are empty from the beginning, the read only

> partition is integrity checked and comes from XVD binary file. XVD files can't

Reviewer 2: integrity is checked

be modified, and during upgrade they are just replaced with the new one,
which means that cold boot of the platform brings it to the trusted state.

These materials were presented the first time for an open audience, though
they are six years old. Security methodology about keys and verification of
further phases is very similar to RIoT architecture that Microsoft ties to DICE.
Chen claimed this is Azure Sphere architecture (what is unverifiable at the
time).  

> > any special characters (e.q. hashtags) in the post title and abstract should be

Reviewer 2: please remove the template notes below :)

---
title: 'Platform Security Summit 2019 notes. Part 1'
abstract: 'We are happy to announce that 3mdeb representation took part in
          Platform Security Summit 2019. In the next weeks we are going to
          briefly refer what took our attention and enclose the course of
          this conference.'
cover: /covers/image-file.png

> author: piotr.krol

Reviewer: @lwcislo you should be second author

layout: post
published: false
date: 2019-10-03
archives: "2019"

tags:
  - PSEC 2019
  - Conference
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
  - Security

---

PSEC 2019 enables hardware/firmware engineers, VMM/OS developers, architects,
integrators, verifiers and senior technical staff to collaborate
on hardware-assisted platform security and composable software supply chain
integrity, from edge to cloud. Piotr Król, 3mdeb founder and Embedded Systems

> Consultant was one of the Speakers with an article "Less-Insecure Network Edge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consultant was one of the speakers with the article "Less-Insecure Network Edge
```

> Virtualization with Low Size, Weight and Power" and shared with us his thoughts

Reviewer: @lwcislo this title could be link to PSEC website

and notes, which will be published here in the next weeks.

> It started 1 Oct in Redmont, WA, at Microsoft Studio B with video describing,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It started 1 Oct in Redmond, WA, at Microsoft Studio B with a video describing,
```

using great metaphors, how we should speak about advanced security with language
that masses can understand. Video touched the areas of necessity of support for
organizations like NASA that rise the level of knowledge in all the mankind.
It also related to the power of stories, myths, that push our specie growth.
That make us dream and imagine unimaginable for the sake of the humanity.
That every discovery and great project has a beginning in the idea, which was
born in someone's head under the influence of some story. In summary,
it is extremely important to communicate in the proper way while selling
security stuff. A dream about reading in mind can quickly turn into a nightmare

> about being brain-hacked.   

Reviewer: @lwcislo http://www.xoc.net/schele/
https://www.amazon.com/Edgewalker-conversation-epigrapher-interview-translation/dp/B003DLTBVM

shorten the most interesting. Reader can find all the abstracts on
the conference page.

__"Guarding against physical attacks; Xbox" Tony Chen__

Imagine, that your task is to create a nuclear shelter. It should be safe
and secure but also easy accessible for anyone with proper key. And it should be
located on the hostile territory.

This was essentially the problem with one of the most attacked devices in
history. When you are working on PC security you can assume, that your job is to
protect the PC owner and his stuff from outer threats. You can consider him
being a good guy. On the contrary on the Xbox the owner is a threat himself.
It is him, who will probably try to use software and hardware tools to
compromise it. Why should he? Because it may give him an advantage in online
games or enable piracy.

Modern gaming platforms are priced below the manufacturing cost. Companies
want to rather earn their share with software - games designed for specific
platform. That's why they consider eventual piracy an extremely dangerous
threat. It may be a matter of company existence - the best example is SEGA.

1. Consequences of owner as an attacker:
- hardware will be a target.

> - can't trust to any data from flash, SSD, HDD, ODD, DRAM

Reviewer: @lwcislo ODD?

Author: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_disc_drive
